# Bayesian optimization for auto augmentation on data sets of varying sizes

Deep neural networks are robust machine learning systems that require a vast amount of data to perform well. Sometimes, the process of collecting data can be tedious and therefore the data available for training a neural network can be of reduced size. For image recognition tasks, data augmentation can solve this problem by transforming the collected images to new ones and combining them with the original data set. Moreover, adding augmented data in the training process of a model can result in a model less prone to overfit on patterns not related to the label of the image, such as position or colour. DeepAugment is used in this paper as an automatic augmentation algorithm and the results of training a model with its output data are compared to the results of a model trained on data transformed by the best AutoAugment policy found for CIFAR-10 and not augmented data. DeepAugment uses Bayesian optimization to find the best parameters of augmentation in order to increase the neural network's performance. Different experiments are conducted on training subsets of varied number of classes and sizes extracted from CIFAR-10. The results show how Bayesian optimization used for the specific purpose of augmenting images increases the performance of the model in 70\% of the cases, presenting independence between improvement rate and size of the data set. We also conclusively reconfirm that the accuracy of a model can be highly improved when augmented data is used in the training process.
